XPaaS haproxy Docker Image
=======================

This project builds a [docker](http://docker.io/) container for running XPaaS based applications.

This image is based on a <code>redhat/xpaas_base</code> version <code>1.0</code> and provides a container including:
HAProxy, is a free, very fast and reliable solution offering high availability, load balancing, and proxying for TCP and HTTP-based applications. ( http://www.haproxy.org/)


Table of contents
------------------

* **[Control scripts](#control-scripts)**
* **[Building the docker container](#building-the-docker-container)**
* **[Running the container](#running-the-container)**
* **[Connection to a container using SSH](#connection-to-a-container-using-ssh)**
* **[Logging](#logging)**
* **[Stopping the container](#stopping-the-container)**
* **[Experimenting](#experimenting)**
* **[Notes](#notes)**

Control scripts
---------------

There are three control scripts:
* <code>build.sh</code> Builds the docker image
* <code>start.sh</code> Starts a new XPaaS HAProxy  docker container based on this image
* <code>stop.sh</code>  Stops the runned XPaaS HAProxy  docker container

Building the docker container
-----------------------------

We have a Docker Index trusted build setup to automatically rebuild the xpass/xpass-haproxy container whenever the
[Dockerfile](https://github.com/jboss-xpaas/docker-containers/blob/master/xpaas-haproxy-docker/Dockerfile) is updated, so you shouldn't have to rebuild it locally. But if you want to, here's now to do it...

Once you have [installed docker](https://www.docker.io/gettingstarted/#h_installation) you should be able to create the containers via the following:

If you are on OS X then see [How to use Docker on OS X](DockerOnOSX.md).

    git clone git@github.com:jboss-xpaas/docker-containers.git
    cd xpaas-docker-containers/xpaas-haproxy-docker
    ./build.sh

Running the container
---------------------

To run a new container from XPaaS haproxy run:

    ./start.sh [-c <container_name>] [-p <root_password>]
    ./start.sh [-c <container_name>] [-p <root_password>]] -hosts [Server1_IP:Server1_Port][,Server2_IP:Server2_Port]*| [-h]

The parameter hosts: expects  the list of web servers to be managed by haproxy.

Or you can try it out via docker command directly:

    docker run -P -d [--name <container_name>] [-e ROOT_PASSWORD="<root_password>"] redhat/xpaas_haproxy:<version>


**Environment variables**
Once the container is started. These is the port mapping:
port 5000. the entry point of the application. The HAProxy redirects to the web server according with the load balance roundrobin rules.
port 9000. Is used to monitor  the haproxy behaviour. (http://ContainerIp:9000/stats)

**Notes**
* If no container name argument is set, it defaults to <code>xpaas-haproxy</code>
* If no root password argument is set, it defaults to <code>xpaas</code>

Connection to a container using SSH
-----------------------------------

When running a new container over this docker image, the SSH daemon is started by default and waiting for connections.

In order to connect to the container using SSH you must know the container binding SSH port. If you type:

    docker ps

you should see the port mappings for each docker container. For example you may see something like this in the PORTS section....

    0.0.0.0:49001->22/tcp

This means that from outside the docker container; you need to use port 49001 to access port 22 inside the container. Note this number changes for each container; outside of each docker container there are different ports that forward to the 22 port.

So if the port number is 49001 then you can type something like this:

    ssh root@localhost -p 49001

**Notes**
* By default, the available users to connect using SSH are <code>root</code> and <code>fabric8</code>
* By default, the <code>root</code> user password is <code>xpaas</code>
* You can change the default <code>root</code> password when running the container. See **[Running the container](#running-the-container)**

Logging
-------
You can see all logs generated by supervisor daemon & programs by running:

    docker logs [-f] <container_id>

You can see only the SSH daemon logs by running this command:

    ssh root@localhost -p <ssh_port> tail -f /var/log/supervisord/sshd-stdout.log
    ssh root@localhost -p <ssh_port> tail -f /var/log/supervisord/sshd-stderr.log


Stopping the container
----------------------
To stop the previous container run using <code>start.sh</code> script just type:

    ./stop.sh

Experimenting
-------------
To spin up a shell in one of the containers try:

    docker run -P -i -t redhat/xpaas_haproxy /bin/bash

You can then noodle around the container and run stuff & look at files etc.

In order to run all container services provided by this image, you have to run the following command:

    supervisord -c /etc/supervisord.conf

Notes
-----
* This docker container is copied and adapted to build from <code>redhat/xpaas_base</code> image